VMware Ref Arch updates to bring back external services op mode as an option (#1358)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/before-installing/reference-architecture/vmware.md

## Infrastructure Requirements

Depending on the chosen [operational
mode](../index.html#operational-mode-decision),
the infrastructure requirements for Terraform Enterprise range from a single virtual machine
for demo or proof of concept installations, to multiple virtual machines
hosting the Terraform Cloud application, PostgreSQL, and external Vault servers for
a stateless production installation.

This reference architecture **recommends and focuses on** the *Mounted Disk* operational mode. This mode will require you to specify the local path for data storage. The assumption is this
local path is a mounted disk from either a SAN or NAS device (or some other
replicated storage), allowing for rapid recovery or failover.

> If you require or desire to define storage externally and independently, you can choose the *External Services*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need or want to define storage externally and independently, you can choose the *External Services*
```

> operational mode. This is a more complicated implementation in VMware that requires you to independently manage other services which will not be detailed in this document. You will need to deploy S3-compatible storage either by connecting to a true AWS S3 bucket or by using a compatible alternative on-prem solution [such as ceph](http://ceph.com/). You will also need to deploy and separately manage an external Postgres database on an additional server or servers.

Reviewer 2: The ceph link should use https

Author: corrected (matches same link later)

> operational mode. This is a more complicated implementation in VMware that requires you to independently manage other services which will not be detailed in this document. You will need to deploy S3-compatible storage either by connecting to a true AWS S3 bucket or by using a compatible alternative on-prem solution, such as [Ceph](https://ceph.com/). You will also need to deploy and separately manage an external Postgres database on an additional server or servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operational mode. This is a more complicated implementation in VMware that requires you to independently manage other services which will not be detailed in this document. You will need to deploy S3-compatible storage either by connecting to a true AWS S3 bucket or by using a compatible alternative on-prem solution, such as [Ceph](https://ceph.com/). You will also need to deploy and separately manage an external PostgreSQL database on an additional server or servers.
```

Some additional information about the *External Services* option can be found at the end of this document.

> It is possible to deploy and/or reference an external Vault server instead of using the internally supplied one, however, this is not a recommended approach and is not addressed in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although it is possible for Terraform Enterprise to use an external Vault server instead of its internally managed one, we do not recommended it. External Vault usage is not addressed in this document.
```

The Storage Layer is provided in the form of attached disk space configured with or benefiting from inherent resiliency
provided by the NAS or SAN.

> -> **Important Note** The storage device/service used must be high-speed in both I/O and connectivity and highly reliable to meet performance requirements. A SAN device will generally meet these requirements. Many standard NAS and other device types, however, will not perform at the level required. So only use a NAS or other device type if it can  accommodate these requirements. The specific selection and configuration of the storage device is not covered in this document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** Terraform Enterprise's storage device or service must be highly reliable and high-speed in both I/O and connectivity to meet performance requirements. Device types in the supported list will usually meet these requirements, but many standard NAS and other device types will not perform at the level required. Only use a NAS or other device type not in the supported list if you are certain it can accommodate these requirements.

The specific selection and configuration of the storage device is not covered in this document.
```

> For more information about high-speed and highly available storage please see your storage vendor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about high-speed and highly available storage, please see your storage vendor.
```

> This document further discusses [mounted disk requirements](../disk-requirements.html) from a broader perspective than just in VMware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about Terraform Enterprise's disk requirements, see [Before Installing: Disk Requirements](../disk-requirements.html).
```

be made available to the server in the event of a DR.

#### ESX Cluster

In the event of a complete ESX cluster failure or datacenter failure, load-balancing should be updated to route traffic to a different datacenter and ESX cluster that is running a second stack of the Terraform Enterprise components. This second environment would be receiving storage layer replication from the primary.

## External Services Storage Options

This information is included if *External Services* operational mode is required.

### External Services - Object Storage Options

An [S3 Standard](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/storage-classes/) bucket, or compatible storage, must be
specified during the Terraform Enterprise installation for application data to be stored
securely and redundantly away from the virtual servers running the Terraform Enterprise
application. This object storage must be accessible via the network to the Terraform Enterprise virtual
machine. Vault is used to encrypt all
application data stored in this location. This allows for further [server-side
encryption](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/serv-side-encryption.html)
by S3 if required by your security policy.

> Recommended object storage solutions are AWS S3, Google Cloud storage, Azure blob storage. Other options for S3-compatible storage are [MinIO](https://www.minio.io/), and [Ceph](https://ceph.com/), and [ECS](https://www.delltechnologies.com/en-us/storage/ecs/index.htm/), among many others. Please feel free to reach out to [support](https://www.hashicorp.com/support) with questions.

Reviewer 2: Are you 100% on the capitalisation of the storage solutions?
